# Project 2
### Model Building with Ames Iowa Housing Data

## Problem Statement
The goal of this project is the creation of a regression model that predicts housing prices in Ames Iowa. The model will be evaluated by its r-squared score on the training and testing data. In addition, the model will be submitted to Kaggle and scored there. The predictions generated by this model should be useful to potential buyers and sellers in the housing market in Ames.
## Datasets
This project uses a dataset composed of information on houses sold in Ames, Iowa from 2006 to 2010.
* [`train.csv`](./data/train.csv): Training data used for model construction
* [`test.csv`](./data/test.csv): Testing Data used for generating predictions

A data description for the dataset can be found [here](http://jse.amstat.org/v19n3/decock/DataDocumentation.txt).
## Pictures
Ames Iowa Picture used in presentation taken from [The Daily Iowan](https://dailyiowan.com/2019/09/12/ames-wins-best-college-town-in-america-iowa-city-stagnant/).
## EDA and Cleaning Overview
Two outliers were observed in above ground living area. Those columns were removed from the model. A heatmap of correlations between sale price and the other variables was used to show which variables would be most useful in predicting price. In addition, boxplots revealed that Garage Area and Garage Cars are closely related to each other and only one should be used in the model.
## The Models
#### Attempt #1 (null model)
This model predicts the average price of houses in the training dataset. It provides a baseline to compare other models against.
#### Attempt #2 
This model is simple and only uses variables that don't require any transformation before fitting into a linear regression.

Variables Used:
- Overall Cond 
- Overall Qual
- Yr Sold
- TotRms AbvGrd

#### Attempt #3
This linear regression model uses the following variables: 

Lot Area, Neighborhood, Bldg Type, Overall Qual, Overall Cond, Heating, Heating QC, Central Air, Electrical, Kitchen Qual, TotRms AbvGrd, Pool Area, Pool QC, Fence, Misc Val, Yr Sold
#### Attempt #4
This regression model uses a ColumnTransformer to process the data. It applies a OneHotEncoder on categorical variables and PolynomialFeatures on selected numerical variables.
#### Attempt #5
This model is an expanded version of the previous with more variables included.
#### Attempt #6
This model uses the same variables as the previous, but has lower variance due to ridge regularization.
## Conclusions
Overall, the fourth model provides the best predictions for Housing Prices. This model can be used to predict the selling price of a house in Ames given the required inputs. It can be used by prospective buyers and sellers in the housing market as a baseline or target for negotiations.